promote - they eat it because it promotes longevity
to embark on a detox programme - rozpocząć
resides in the skin - znajdować się
conveyed by -the face of a person or the appearance conveyed by it -przenoszony, przekazywany
evoked by - wywołany przez
is noted for its - znany z
endorse - aprobowac popierac
render - udzielac, wykonywac, przedstawiac, odplacic money serves as a reward for services rendered, the rains rendered his escape impossible
deprive them of - pozbawic
to utter short bark - wygłosic
countenance - oblicze-  When she saw a ghost all colour drained from her countenance.
transfuse - nabiegac przelewac - When I saw a hot guy, a blush transfused my face.
excessive weight
be scarce/few 
down and out.       - If you don't respect your work, they will soon make you redundant, and you'll find yourself down and out. 
redundant - zbędny
conveyed by it        - przekazywane/przenoszone przez nią
vertex - wierzchołek
renowned for      -   marine mollusc that is renowned for its taste and producing pearls
ordinary members of an institution
znany - renowned for its taste and producing pearls 
convey  - przekazywanych przez - pipes were laid to convey water to the house
 impairment  - [imperment] -a degree of physical or mental impairment - osłabienie, upośledzenie
obtain some special traits  - uzyskać
stemming from - wynikający z
comprises - zawiera coś
clenched - klenczt - zaciśnięta np pięść
 it promotes - wspiera, promuje - They eat this plant believing it promotes longevity. 
protrude - wystawiac, wynurzać się wystawac - The distal end of the clavicle may protrude slightly upward.
impaired respiration. - zaburzenia oddychania.
protrude –pro-,pr?'tro?od wystawać extend beyond or above a surface."something like a fin protruded from the water"
places on the body 
 the emergence of a tooth through the gums - iˈmərjəns -  wynurzenie się powstanie
fit under - one of a pair of long wooden or metal sticks that fit under the armpit and reach to the ground, they help the disabled to walk
combat - The toothpaste I bought refreshes your breath, whitens your teeth and combats cavities. 
noxious - szkodliwy
steep-sided valley - "stip dided" - stromy  (especially one formed by running water
tendentious - strongly favoring a particular point of view in a way that may cause argument : expressing a strong opinion
virulent - złośliwy, deadly -  virulent toxin in my body. 
benign - łagodny niezłośliwy
wholesome - zdrowy np posiłek
administered - podał - The anaesthetist administered an excessive dose and the patient died during the operation. 
deleterious  -  ˌdeliterius - szkodliwy  -The drug might have deleterious effect on the foetus.
beads krople - bēd bid
trots - a disorder of intestines marked by frequent evacuation of watery faeces
entail - pociągać za sobą , powodować - This kind of infection can entail a lupus flare. 
palliate - ulzyc łagodzic - treatment works by palliating symptoms
pernicious - groźny, złośliwy
perceptible
adhered - edhird - przyklejona
gust - gast - poryw, np wiatry, wybuch
submerged - zanurzony podwodny
ridge - grzbiet
marked by - oznczony
evoked by - wywołany przez
obtain - uzyskac 
deleterious - ˌdeliˈti(ə)rēəs - szkodliwy
administer - podawac, wymierzać, przyczynic sie - The anaesthetist administered an excessive dose
derives - wyprowadza wywodzi - parasite derives food from them
endorse - enˈdôrs - popierać akceptować - the report was endorsed by the college
manifested in - His mania manifested in an absolute dedication to painting 
bias - bajes stronniczość, uprzedzenie - there was evidence of bias against foreign applicants, readers said the paper was biased toward the conservatives
gaunt - gond - wychudzony, wymizerowany
malignant - złośliwy - o chorobie
innate - inejt - wrodzony - Human beings have an innate ability to learn language. Synonyms: congenital, inborn, unconditioned, unlearned
concerning - odnośnie do - with regard to, -  concerning feet or footlike part 
combine - polączyć się -  The germ cells combine to form a new organism.
maim - okaleczyć
emaciated - wyniszczony - Her body was emaciated after years of anorexia and bulimia.
deleterious - deletirius - szkodliwy - The drug might have deleterious effect on the foetus.
torpor - apatia senność - She was depressed and fell into a deep torpor 
predisposition - skłonność
worsening - gettign worse
fester - ropieć
nostrum - lekarstwo na wszystko - The CEO is opposed to all the economic nostrums of the 1980s.
congested - zapchany - My nose is congested due to a flu.
twitch - szarpac kłuci - Mum, my tummy is twitching me. 
heave - hiw - wymiotowac
frazzled - frazld - umęczony zmordowany - Miners come back home really frazzled
Profuse - obfity - Profuse sweating is the symptom of nervousness.
flux - biegunka wypływ upływ
palliate - łagodzić - The nurse palliated the pain by injecting morphine.
lessen - lagodzić
differentiated - zróznicowana
pernicious - złosliwy jak rak - insidious, subtle
groggy - słaby oslabiony półprzytomny
cranky - chory chorowity
amenable - aminbl - podlegający, zalezny
eligible - elidżibl - nadający się, wybieralny
rightfully - słusznie
treachery - treczeri- zdrada
paroxysm - paroxyzm - atak np choroby
sheaths - osłona otoczka prezerwatywa - a group of axons with surrounding sheaths 
contemporary pests - kənˈtempəˌrerē - współczesne szkodniki
diminish - zmniejszać
at higher doses - w wiekszych dawkach
dotage - dotydż - podeszły wiek
slants down - pochylać się
slant - pochyla się, skos
blizzard - zamieć zadyma
drag  - dżrag - opór np powietrza - The car's body is designed to reduce drag. 
conduct- zachowanie , postępek, przewodzić, prowadzić się, zachować się - the manner in which a person behaves, especially on a particular occasion or in a particular context.  "the conduct of the police during the riot"
ignite - podpalić
 beget   - spłodzić - to make children - Abraham begot Isaac. 
as a matter of course - used to say that sth is obvious and expected to happen in a given situation -This job is more demanding, but the salary is better, as a matter of course. 
thaw - fo - roztapiać - The ice thaws ("foz") in spring. syn - dissolve
abounding - obfityjący - əˈboundiNG - abounding with clouds
overcast - zachmurzenia/ zachmurzony - The sky is overcast so we're not going sunbathing.
 squelch - skłalcz - chlupotac - The marsh squelched under our feet as we walked.
strain - odmiana szczep -  This strain of bacteria is resistant to most known antibiotics. 
recess - wgłebienie , wnęka
derives - wywodzi się - a plant or animal that lives in or on another plant or animal and derives food from them
adversarial - sprzeczny, contradictory
occult - zakrywać The earth occulted the moon today.
abundant - ebendent - obfity - producing abundant growth  
uttered - aterd - wypowiedziany - The sound is uttered with resonance of the vocal cords.
endemic - The kauri tree is endemic to New Zealand, it is not found naturally in any other country.
sultry - duszny parny -The summer was very hot and sultry.
notch - przesmyk wsska przelęcz - This notch isn't actually a passage between hills, though it's named so.
deluge - powódź - deljudż
forge - wykuc (nauka), podrobic
reclaim - odzyskac, resocjalizowac, cywilizowac - We topsoiled the overdried land in order to reclaim it.
recess - wglebienie
exuberant -  egzubrnt -bogaty bojny obfity  This 40 room hotel is located in the middle of the rich and exuberant jungle of the Caribbean Coast.
tempestuous - tempeszczues - burzliwy wzburzony - The tempestuous wind blew our boat to unknown waters.
forlorn - samotny opuszczony beznadziejny
secrete - wydzielac sekrit- Insulin is secreted by the pancreas. 
meager - mēgər - skromny - such a meager technology
fathom - aT͟Həm - pojąć - i cannot fathom why
conform - kənˈfôrm - odpowiadać, dostosować się do czegoś - something doesnt conform to any normal laws of physics
transpires - tranˈspī(ə)r - wydarzać się - dont you see what transpires
zbierać grzyby - to pick mushrooms
rozumieć - i'm talking about things you may not have the perspective to comprehend yet